# DOSAGE CALCULATOR

#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/CWodV_M-3T0

#### Description:
I work as a pharmacist in Portugal and one thing we frequently do in my job is to validate the prescription of certain drugs prescribed by physicians. With this project, I decided to creat an easier, faster and safer way of doing that so we don't have to do it manually.

The dosage is calculated according to the age and/or weight of the child (specific for each medicine), so the first thing the program does is receive input from the user regarding the child's age and weight. If the child is 12 or more years old, the program will exit, using sys.exit and displaying the message that the child should already be taking pills and not syrup. The exact same thing happens if the child is more than 40kg because, in that case, pills, and not syrups, should be used.
If the child is less than 12 years and less than 40kg, the program will display a list of drugs (some of the most prescribed) and will prompt the user to choose which medicine was prescribed.

After that, the program will verify if the input corresponds to one of the medicines on the list. If the medicine is not on the list, the program will raise a ValueError explaining that the user needs to choose one of the drugs that are part of the list.
If the chosen drug is penicillin (in this case, the two first medicines on the list), the program will ask the user if the person who received this prescription is allergic to penicillin. This is something we, as pharmacists, do every time we have a prescription for penicillin since the person can have a severe allergic reaction if they take this substance and are allergic to it. If the answer is affirmative the program will exit with sys.exit, displaying the message that the physician should be consulted since the person cannot take the medicine prescribed. If the person is not allergic the program will continue by calculating the minimum, maximum and medium dosages of the medicine that could be taken every 12h. In the specif case of Clavamox DT and Clamoxyl that is a range of dosages that can be used according to the severity of the infection. So, having the minimum, medium and maximum dosages will help the pharmacist understand if the dosage prescribed is valid for a child of that specific weight and will also help understand the severity of the infection.
If the drug prescribed is klacid, the program will use the child's weight to calculate the correct dosage to administrate every 12h. If the drug prescribed is ben-u-ron, the program will use the child's weight to calculate the minimum and maximum dosages that could be taken by the child. In this case, the minimum dosage is the amount that can be taken every 6h and the maximum dosage the amount that can be taken every 8h. If the medicine prescribed is aerius the dosage is calculated using the child's age.

After that, the program will display the major side effects and major contraindications of the prescribed medicine. That is done by using the csv DictReader of the csv module, which reads a csv file previously created called medicines.csv and appends to two different empty lists a dictionary containing the name of the medicine and the major side effects or the name of the medicine and the major contraindications. The program will only print the side effects and contraindications of the drug previously chosen from the list.
If the chosen drug from the list is Clavamox DT, the program will also display a message reminding the user that this particular antibiotic needs to be stored in the fridge after being prepared.
